# ESPHome custom component design tutorial

ESPHome's primary vocation is to enable users with no computer skills to create software for **electronic modules**. To do this, it calls on a library of **components** which it assembles according to the user's needs, then automatically generates the microcontroller firmware required to realize the desired function. All the user has to do is assemble the various components on an electronic board, and connect it to a computer to load the code generated by ESPHome.
But what do you do when you need to use a component that doesn't exist in the ESPHome library? So I asked myself what procedure and tools I should use to create this new component.
To my knowledge, there are many tutorials on creating **modules** in ESPHome, but very few on creating new **component**. I therefore proceeded by trial and error, with the help of other users, and in the end I defined an environment and a process to follow. As I learned quite a lot along the way, I thought it would be interesting to share this experience. I'd like to make it clear that this is how I do things, but there are obviously other and better ways of doing things.

this series of tutorials attempts to answer some of the questions that arise when creating a component and integrating it (or not) into the ESPHome library.
___
This series of tutorials is organized as follows

- Part 1: Introduction to the ESPHome operating process as I understand it
- Part 2: Setting up the software development environment either directly under Windows or in a Dev Container in Visual Studio Code
- Part 3: Setting up the hardware needed to test your component. Recommended tools, debugging cards, etc.
- Part 4: The process of submitting and validating your component in the ESPHome library.
- Part 5: Example of component development. I've chosen to model an I²C to UART adaptor, as it allows me to explore certain aspects of ESPHome's architecture. As this section is long, it is divided into several subsections.

Each section is accompanied by an English (and French) document describing the section in detail, in PDF and markdown format. It also contains the different source code used.
If you understand French, you can also watch my accompanying videos on Youtube.
___
Jean Louis-Guerin alias **DrCoolZic** on most forums :)
